Update configuration.md (#112)
Volue-Public/energy-smp-docs: docs/mesh-data-transfer/configuration/configuration.md

  },
```

#### Queue Durability Configuration

The `Durable` parameter allows you to configure queue persistence for AMQP/RabbitMQ connections. This setting determines whether queues survive broker restarts.

> **Note:** This parameter applies only to AMQP/RabbitMQ connections and is ignored for Azure Service Bus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_Note!_** This parameter applies only to AMQP/RabbitMQ connections and is ignored for Azure Service Bus.
```

```json
  "BrokersConfiguration": {
    "B1": {
      "ConnectionStrings": [
        "amqp://localhost:5672"
      ],
      "VirtualHost": "Virtus",
      "Durable": 1
    }
  },
```

Valid values for `Durable`:
- `0` - **Non-durable** (default): Transient link. Does not persist across broker restarts.
- `1` - **Durable**: Persistent link. Broker retains state and messages after restart.
- `2` - **Transient**: Temporary link optimized for short-lived sessions. No persistence.

If not specified, the default value is `0` (non-durable).

### Queues Configuration

> Mesh Data Transfer allows a configuration of queues that can be later assigned to various components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure queues in Mesh Data Transfer that later can be assigned to various components.
```

`Subscription` enables the use of Azure Service Bus Topics feature. When `Subscription` is provided, the `QueueName` parameters serves as the topic name. `Subscription` is only valid for queues with the `Receive` role. For the `Sender` role, `QueueName` can serve both as the queue name and the topic name.

```json
      "ReplyQueueName": "ReplyQueue1",
      "FailureQueueName": "FailureQueue1"
```

`ReplyQueueName` and `FailureQueueName` are optional properties that specify which reply and failure queues should be used for a specific receiver queue. These properties enable source-specific message routing in import operations:

> - **`ReplyQueueName`**: References a queue (by its identifier in `QueuesConfiguration`) with `Sender` role that will receive import reply messages for this receiver queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`ReplyQueueName`**: References a queue (by its identifier in `QueuesConfiguration`) with the `Sender` role that will receive import reply messages for this receiver queue
```

> - **`FailureQueueName`**: References a queue (by its identifier in `QueuesConfiguration`) with `Failure` role that will receive failed messages for this receiver queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`FailureQueueName`**: References a queue (by its identifier in `QueuesConfiguration`) with the `Failure` role that will receive failed messages for this receiver queue
```

**Configuration Scenarios:**
1. **Explicit Configuration**: Directly reference existing queues to establish dedicated reply/failure channels

> 2. **Auto-creation**: If not specified and no suitable queues are found, MDT automatically creates queues with naming pattern: `{receiver-queue-name}-reply` and `{receiver-queue-name}-failure`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Auto-creation**: If not specified and no suitable queues are found, MDT automatically creates queues with the naming pattern: `{receiver-queue-name}-reply` and `{receiver-queue-name}-failure`
```

},
```

#### Authentication Configuration

Mesh Data Transfer supports three authentication types for the Mesh gRPC connection:
- `None` - No authentication (default)
- `Kerberos` - Kerberos / Windows integrated authentication

> - `EntraId` - Microsoft EntraId (Azure AD) OAuth 2.0 authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `EntraId` - Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) / OAuth 2.0 authentication
```

Reviewer: The two options should have the same syntax. Not sure what would be best.
For instance: 
Windows/Kerberos authentication 
Entra ID/OAuth authentication

Author: Good suggestion.

Set `HttpEndpoints:Mesh:AuthType` to the desired authentication method.

The same `AuthType` also controls authentication for the **MDT REST API** (see [MDT REST API Authentication](#mdt-rest-api-authentication) below).

##### Kerberos Authentication

For Kerberos authentication, set:
- `AuthType` to `"Kerberos"`
- `ServerPrincipal` to the Kerberos server principal of the Mesh server (e.g., `"HOST/server.mydomain.com"`)

```json
"HttpEndpoints": {
  "Mesh": {
    "Uri": "https://localhost:50001/mesh",
    "AuthType": "Kerberos",

>     "ServerPrincipal": "HOST/server.mydomain.com",

Reviewer: SPN is "Service Principal Name", so should probably have been the same, but assume too late now.

Author: In context of Kerberos authentication, you're right. But I think we leave it as is.
Do you agree @jansvolue?

    "TokenRefreshIntervalMinutes": 30
  }
}
```

> **Note:** For backward compatibility, if `ServerPrincipal` is set without `AuthType`, Kerberos authentication will be used automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_Note!_** For backwards compatibility, if `ServerPrincipal` is set without `AuthType`, Kerberos authentication will be used by default.
```

> ##### EntraId Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Entra ID Authentication
```

Reviewer: Make sure to write **Entra ID** consistently.

> EntraId credentials are configured in a dedicated top-level `EntraId` section (not under `HttpEndpoints:Mesh`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Entra ID credentials are configured in a dedicated top-level `EntraId` section (not under `HttpEndpoints:Mesh`).
```

  "Scopes": [
    { "Role": "Mesh", "Value": "api://mesh/.default" }
  ]
}
```

**With certificate file (.pfx/.pem):**
```json
"EntraId": {
  "TenantId": "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "ClientId": "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "CertificatePath": "/path/to/certificate.pfx",
  "CertificatePassword": "certificate-password",
  "Scopes": [
    { "Role": "Mesh", "Value": "api://mesh/.default" }
  ]
}
```

**With certificate from Windows certificate store:**
```json
"EntraId": {
  "TenantId": "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "ClientId": "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "CertificateThumbprint": "1234567890ABCDEF1234567890ABCDEF12345678",
  "CertificateStoreLocation": "CurrentUser",
  "CertificateStoreName": "My",
  "Scopes": [
    { "Role": "Mesh", "Value": "api://mesh/.default" }
  ]
}
```

The `Mesh` scope is used for the gRPC connection to the Mesh server. Additional roles (`Api`, `ServiceBus`, `Storage`) can be added to the `Scopes` list to enable Entra ID authentication for the HTTP API, Azure Service Bus, and Azure Blob Storage respectively — see the [Azure Service Bus and Blob Storage](#azure-service-bus-and-blob-storage-entra-id) section.

> **Security Note:** Store sensitive credentials like `ClientSecret` and `CertificatePassword` securely using Azure Key Vault, environment variables, or other secure configuration providers. Do not commit secrets to source control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_Important!_** Store sensitive credentials like `ClientSecret` and `CertificatePassword` securely using Azure Key Vault, environment variables, or other secure configuration providers. Do not commit secrets to source control.
```

#### MDT REST API Authentication

MDT REST API endpoints can be independently secured using `ApiSettings:RequireAuthentication`. When enabled, all endpoints except `/health` require authentication. The `AuthType` set in `HttpEndpoints:Mesh` determines the scheme used.

```json
"ApiSettings": {
  "EnableSwagger": true,
  "RequireAuthentication": true
}
```

##### No Authentication (default)

```json
{
  "HttpEndpoints": { "Mesh": { "Uri": "...", "AuthType": "None" } },
  "ApiSettings": { "RequireAuthentication": false }
}
```

##### Kerberos (Windows integrated authentication)

```json
{
  "HttpEndpoints": {
    "Mesh": { "Uri": "...", "AuthType": "Kerberos", "ServerPrincipal": "HOST/server.mydomain.com" }
  },
  "ApiSettings": { "RequireAuthentication": true }
}
```

Swagger UI will prompt for Windows credentials using the Negotiate scheme.

> ##### EntraId (OAuth 2.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Entra ID (OAuth 2.0)
```

Reviewer: If this is not the name of the config. parameter

```json
{
  "HttpEndpoints": { "Mesh": { "Uri": "...", "AuthType": "EntraId" } },
  "EntraId": {
    "TenantId": "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
    "ClientId": "xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx",
    "ClientSecret": "your-client-secret",
    "Scopes": [
      { "Role": "Mesh", "Value": "api://mesh/.default" },
      { "Role": "Api",  "Value": "api://<this-app-id>/.default" }
    ]
  },
  "ApiSettings": { "RequireAuthentication": true }
}
```

> When `AuthType` is `EntraId`, Swagger UI is automatically configured with an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code + PKCE flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `AuthType` is `EntraId`, the Swagger UI is automatically configured with an OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code + PKCE flow:
```

1. Navigate to Swagger UI (e.g., `http://localhost:7000/swagger`)
2. Click the **Authorize** button
3. Complete the Microsoft login flow and consent to requested permissions
4. The access token is automatically included in subsequent API requests

> #### Other Mesh Configuration Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Other Mesh configuration options
```

}
```

### JSON time series import

Mesh Data Transfer supports importing time series data sent as Volue time series JSON AMQP messages. The message contains a header (origin, document identification, creation date) and one or more time series, each with a `TSReference` path pointing to the target Mesh time series, a time interval, and a list of value points.

#### AMQP message type annotation

> To have the message recognized and processed as a Volue time series JSON import, the AMQP message must include a message annotation with the key `Action` set to `MeshTimeSeriesJson`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have the message recognised and processed as a Volue time series JSON import, the AMQP message must include a message annotation with the key `Action` set to `MeshTimeSeriesJson`:
```

In order to work properly it needs `Queues` to contain a list of queues from `QueuesConfiguration`. One of the queues needs to be a `Receiver` queue which will be used to receive import orders. Another queue needs to be a `Sender` queue, used for sending import status data.
The third, optional queue, needs to be a `Failure` queue. Its use depends on `FailedMessages` node below.

> **Reply and Failure Queue Routing:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Reply and Failure queue routing**
```

> - If receiver queues specify `ReplyQueueName` or `FailureQueueName` properties, those specific queues will be used for reply/failure messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the receiver queues specify `ReplyQueueName` or `FailureQueueName` properties, those specific queues will be used for reply/failure messages.
```

- If not specified, `ImportWorker` will:

>   1. Look for queues with `Sender` role (for replies) or `Failure` role (for failures) in the `Queues` list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Look for queues with the `Sender` role (for replies) or the `Failure` role (for failures) in the `Queues` list
```

>   2. Automatically create source-specific queues with naming pattern `{receiver-queue}-reply` and `{receiver-queue}-failure` if needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. Automatically create source-specific queues with the naming pattern `{receiver-queue}-reply` and `{receiver-queue}-failure` if needed
```

Another parameter for `StoragePerProtocol` nodes is `DefaultDecimals`. It defines the number of decimals that is saved in the exported time series values if the decimals parameter is not defined in the time series export definition. It is optional and currently it is only supported for EDIEL DELFOR, ExcelCSV and GS2 export types.

#### MeshTimeSeriesJson export to Azure Blob Storage

The `MeshTimeSeriesJson` protocol (ID 141) exports raw JSON directly to Azure Blob Storage and sends a lightweight notification containing the blob SAS URL to the configured AMQP queue.

Minimum configuration in `Storage:StoragePerProtocol`:

```json
"MeshTimeSeriesJson": {
  "StorageKinds": [ "Queue" ],
  "DefaultQueues": [ "ExportReplyQueue" ],
  "BlobContainer": "meshjson-exports"
}
```

> The blob container is created automatically on first use. The queue notification carries the SAS URL in the `BlobPath` AMQP message annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The blob container is created automatically the first time it is used. The queue notification carries the SAS URL in the `BlobPath` AMQP message annotation.
```

Then, it is required to set the authorisation scopes in the Mesh groups file (defined in the `GroupsFile` authorisation setting of Mesh).
When data-transfer is running as `LocalSystem`, use the group name `System`.
Otherwise, use the dedicated group name.

> ## Running automatic end to end tests locally

Reviewer: I assume this part should not go to the public documentation? It includes internal/customer info.

Author: Yes, should be removed.
